# Algorithm-Performance-per-User

This project aims to evaluate the performance of different recommendation algorithms at an user level across multiple datasets. By calculating the Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) for each user across all algorithm-dataset pair, the project investigate whether selecting algorithm based on user can enhance recommendation quality and user satisfaction. RecPack library was used for calculating per-user NDCG values.

## Algorithms

- **Item Similarity Algorithms**: SLIM, ItemKNN, NMFItemToItem, and SVDItemToItem.
- **Hybrid Similarity Algorithms**: KUNN.
-	**Factorization Algorithms**: NMF and SVD.

## Datsets

- **MovieLens Data**: MovieLens100K, MovieLens1M, MovieLens10M datasets including movie ratings.
- **Globo Dataset**: large dataset collected from a news portal, including user interaction logs, specifically tracking page views.
- **CiteULike Dataset**: This dataset includes user-created collections of articles.

## Pipelines 

### Overall NDCG

`overall_ndcg.py` python script computes the overall NDCG of the selected algorithms across the datasets. Using the recpack.datasets module, datasets can be imported to achieve overall NDCG of different algorithms. Globo dataset must be downloaded seperately, and should provide the path to the downloaded zip file.

### Per-User Ndcg

`Pipeline.py` python script calculates per-user NDCG scores of the selected algorithms across the datasets. Using the recpack.datasets module, datasets can be imported to achieve overall NDCG of different algorithms. Globo dataset must be downloaded seperately, and should provide the path to the downloaded zip file.

## Data Aggregation for Analysis

- `sorting ranking data.py` python script processes and combines data from multiple Excel files containing algorithm evaluation results from a individual dataset.It ranks the users based on their per-user scores for each algorithm, and creates a consolidated CSV file with the combined results. This CSV file can be used to plot different graphs to understand the data.
- `Combining_ndcg.py` python script combines overall NDCG score of each algorithm from the Excel file into combined file that got from `sorting ranking data.py`.

To obtain aggregated data including every algorithm's per-user NDCG score for each dataset, these two Python scripts should be executed for every dataset. 

## Analysis

The CSV files generated by the python script `Combining_ndcg.py`for different datasets are used in the following python scripts.

- `Comparison_of_overall_ndcg.py` python script generates a graph that visualizes overall NDCG scores of algorithms across different datasets.
- `violin_plot.py' python script generates a graph that visualizes distribution of NDCG scores of users across algorithms and datasets.
- `zero_score-analysis.py` python script gernerates a table and graph, showing the distribution of users who scored zero NDCG across multiple algorithms.
- `Table_proportion_of_users.py` python script calculates the number of users and the proportion of users with NDCG score zero, one and close to overall NDCG. It creates a table with that content and saves them to both CSV and Excel file.

  The CSV file generated by the python script `Table_proportion_of_users.py` is used in the following python scripts.
  
- `summary_users_score_zero.py` python script gernerates a graph that visualizes proportion of users with an NDCG value of zero.
- `summary_users_score_one.py` python script gernerates a graph that visualizes proportion of users with an NDCG value of one.
- `summary_users_Close_to_overall_ndcg` python script gernerates a graph that visualizes proportion of users scored NDCG close to overall NDCG.


